All right, so sorry those of you online, I can't figure out how to see you while I'm
doing a PowerPoint, so bear with me on that.
Okay, so when you hear the term performance-based learning, what do you think of?
You think cars?
You think cars? Okay, I think just striving to get better, to perform
higher in the classroom. Okay, all right. Anybody else online want to say
something about performance-based learning, what they think of when they
hear that term? This is Marlene. I think of being active, doing something active.
Physically. Okay, active, doing something physically, good.
Okay, so performance-based learning typically includes activity, this is the
definition we're going to use, includes activities and tasks that are authentic
and meaningful to the students. Performance-based learning focuses on
how the content is taught and assessed, not on the specific information covered
in the course, so it can be applied across different content areas and
instructional levels, okay, really demonstrating something. Okay, so when you
think about being a technical college and what we teach here at the technical
college, we're teaching that performance-based learning, right? Lauren, I'm
looking at you right away, right, with Cosmo, like you have the salon down there,
the students are performing every day when they're practicing and you're
giving them pointers, right, on how to do nails or how to improve, so they're
getting that work and that hands-on and that performance-based every day.
So we're going to start by reviewing Maslow's hierarchy of needs. I'm hoping
that this, everyone has probably seen this a little bit, sometime in their life
they've been familiar with it, but understanding Maslow's pyramid
really helps us understand how we can help our students perform. So we're going
to start with a short two-minute video. Those of you online, I marked share sound,
so it should work. Give me, yell at me or something if it does it. So again, it's
about a two-minute video to introduce us to the concepts.
Maslow's hierarchy of needs is one of the best-known theories of motivation. It
was developed by humanistic psychologist Abraham Maslow in the mid 20th century.
This theory suggests people are motivated to fulfill basic needs before
moving on to more advanced needs. As a humanist, Maslow believed people are
born with a desire to be self-actualized, which in his own words may be loosely
described as the full use and exploitation of talents, capabilities, and
potentials. However, in order to achieve these ultimate goals, more basic needs
like food, safety, and self-esteem must be met. Maslow's hierarchy is often
displayed as a pyramid. At the base are the most basic psychological needs, food,
water, sleep, and warmth. At the second level, the needs for security and safety
become primary. This can include financial security, health and wellness,
and safety from injury. Progression up the pyramid deepens the significance of
social needs like love, friendship, and intimacy. The fourth level in Maslow's
hierarchy prioritizes the need for personal esteem and feelings of
accomplishment. At the very peak of Maslow's hierarchy are the self-actualization
needs. Here people are self-aware, concerned with personal growth, less
concerned with the opinions of others, and interested in fulfilling their
potential. Rather than focusing on a normal behavior and development, Maslow's
humanistic psychology takes a different approach, focusing on the development of
healthy individuals. And while there is relatively little research supporting
the theory, Maslow's hierarchy of needs represents an important shift in the
field of psychology.
Okay, so we have that pyramid there that shows us meeting the basic needs first
and then moving up to that self-actualization. If you think about it,
our students perform the best in the classroom when all these needs are met
first, right? And they perform better in the classroom when those needs are met,
which is why on campus we have Robin to help with mental health, we
have the food pantry, we have resources, we have the charger dream fund,
or grants that people can get gas cards, right? Because those of us that have been
in the classroom a while, or even maybe just a short time, we have seen, right?
Sometimes you see a student who's performing well, or all of a sudden
something happens, or they appear to be struggling, but like you know that they
can do it. And sometimes it's because they're focusing on meeting these needs
down here first before they can really perform well. You know, maybe they're
working a job outside of class 40 hours a week and trying to go full-time, raise
a family, okay? And so sometimes performing in the classroom might not be
their top priority. And so when we understand this, we can kind of
help plan our curriculum and our assessments to really aid in being
fulfilled, being creative, being spontaneous, right? Problem solving and
in doing that. Okay. This one is something else you probably have heard. In fact, I see
it sitting right here from another FQAS session, okay?
Bloom's Technology, okay? This is the hierarchical model that classifies
learning objectives into six skills, each representing a different
cognitive skill. And you can see that we start down here at remembering,
understanding, applying, analyzing, evaluating, and creating. And these are the
lower thinking skills, and these are the higher thinking skills. And when we talk
about curriculum development, specifically when we're writing
curriculum in WIDS, okay, and we're writing those course competencies, we
really want to focus on these higher order thinking skills, okay? And so we're
going to take some time here to see that, but we're going to look at competencies in
your class, and hopefully you see verbs associated with that. Okay, this slide is
actually in Schoology, in the class that you're in, so you can go out there and use it,
maybe print it off, but this is a slide that gives you verbs that you can use,
okay, on here to help you understand what you're asking the students to do at each
level, okay? And so you can see when we're talking about the lower level, we're
talking about asking students to do things like arrange, define, describe,
order, outline, very simplistic concepts. But when we get up here to things like
analysis, synthesis, evaluation, okay, we're looking at, we want them to do
things like conclude, evaluate, categorize, summarize, calculate, okay? We're
really looking at a higher level, higher level things that we're asking them to
do. And when we look at these higher level verbs up here, are these verbs more
performance-based verbs really performing something up here? Then we are down here,
right? Up here we can really see, like, assemble, okay? So I'm thinking automation
stuff, right? We're assembling stuff. Medical lab, right? Back there, what would
be a good one related to that? You're setting things up, right? Can you
specifically set it up? Cosmo, you know, what would be a good one for Cosmo?
Experimenting, right? You know, so you can see that there's definitely different
things associated with that. Another thing I want to show you and I
believe, here is another form, I think this one's on Schoology as well, as a way
to really think about those critical thinking skills and applying them to
two different verbs and questions to ask yourself as you're writing that
curriculum, as you're writing in those course competencies. So one thing I
do have is what I call my verb list. And I've had this verb list for a very long
time, since I took this course years ago, which things have changed how it was
there. But my verb list looks like this.
Anyways, I have a verb list that looks like this, okay? And it's supposed to be
on Schoology, I don't want to start working there. And you can see, again, it's based on the
lower to higher Bloom's technology. And one of the first things I do when I'm
writing course competencies is I dig out my verb list. And I start with my verb
list, because when you write those course competencies, that curriculum, you
want them to start with an action verb. And so I use this verb list to help
decide what we're going to physically ask the student to do. So just to give
you an example, we're going to go to WIDS now.
All right, so in WIDS, for those of you that don't know, WIDS is our curriculum
software program that we use, and that's what WTCS system use. Lisa Riley and Tina
Lees on campus are our WIDS people. So if you need help specifically like putting
stuff in there, or getting new classes in there, or you're having issues getting
in to change something, let them know. When it comes to using them, you can
reach out to me. We have WIDS coaches on campus through the curriculum committee.
I'm not sure who actually they all are. I know Joe Brandil is one, I think Chris
Scoville is one. You can reach out to them for help as well. But I want to show
you my favorite classes.
Okay, so this is a course that I teach. Actually, it's a course I've been teaching
for 17 years, and I have changed it a couple times as we've gone
through different curriculum changes. So when you log into WIDS, when you blend
your course, you're going to come to a page that looks like this. And here, you
will see things, you will see your course outcomes, right? The course competency. So
I want you to look through, as I show you this class, this particular class, you
will notice we have course competencies, and each competency has learning
objectives, okay? What I want you to pay attention to here is, as we, these course
competencies, are you seeing those higher level verbs associated with looms
technology here? Summarize, okay? So the main, the main competency should be those
higher level looms text, sexonomy verbs. You get down to these learning objectives, it's
okay to use some of those lower level verbs, like explain, discuss, because you
sometimes you have to do those lower level activities first in order to totally
be able to summarize, right? And so you can see those different things on here.
Here we have diagram. I think diagram might actually be a lower level one, but
for this particular thing, it works well, right? I want them to diagram. But then I
get down here, demonstrate, right? Evaluate, okay? Categorize, okay? So what I'm asking
students to do here, these are probably the three major ones, categorize,
evaluate, demonstrate, okay? Methods to test feed. You know, I, we're talking
about evaluating the feed test report. My students are physically given a feed
test report, and they have to look at it and tell me how is that going to impact
the energy level that the cow eats? How is it going to impact milk production?
How's it going to impact how that animal grows? Is it going to impact how well
they eat it, the digestibility and their intake? Okay, I'm not speaking Austin's
terms a little bit. I know this background, but you know, but those types
of things. And it's challenging for the students at first to really comprehend
and pull all that together, but through lots of practice, they're able to do
that, okay? And I'm able to actually, because I'm a dairy farmer myself, I use
our test report. So they're seeing real actual stuff that we use every day on our
farm. I actually work with my nutritionist too, and she doesn't like to
share with me, but I'll be like, Katie, I need some bad feed reports. And she's
like, oh, okay. So I can show what a bad corn silage is, or what a bad haylage is,
so they can see the difference in the numbers. And then how I totally assess
that one is they are given a stack of haylage reports, a stack of corn silage
reports, and a stack of dry hay reports, and they have to rate that. Which one do
they consider the best, and which one do they consider the worst, and why? And they
have to use the term digestibility, dry matter intake, okay, protein, energy. They
have to use all that to really show and demonstrate, and help show me that they
can evaluate a feed test report, okay? You will also see as you look through
with here, okay, they evaluate assessment strategies. We talked about the objectives,
those lower levels. We will also see under each one here in some assessment
strategies, how different ways that you could use to assess, and then how will the
student know when they are successful. So right here you can see write a report
explaining the details of the feed test report. And so those understanding, those
different types of assessments in this program. One thing I also like to do is I
like to do scenarios. In a lot of my advanced level classes, we'll give
them a scenario and tell them, especially when we're balancing rations, okay, what
are you going to do in this scenario? Demonstrations for this class. Like I said,
using the feed test reports, but I also take them out to the farm, and I make
them walk cows, okay? So when we're, with my farm being only five minutes from
campus, it gives quite a bit to the farm. But when we're talking about the
digestibility of feeds in cattle, we're talking about you got to analyze their
feces, their poop, okay? Comes with the game, all right? So I make them go up to
my farm and tell me my cows have good or bad poop, right? And it's, I think it's
one of the funnest labs. Some of them enjoy it. Some of them hate it. Some of
them definitely determine they do not want it. It's funny, they come into animal
nutrition class, and they want to work in animal nutrition. I know Austin's sister
does. And then they leave the class, I don't want anything to do with it. So
it's, so it's, so there's a lot of different ways that we have that we
demonstrate those performance-based learnings. So think about that. Any
questions on using this? Now, something I've added to this is, let's see if
we can get it. We have AI on campus, right? And we, we're promoting using it for
different things, right? So, you know, you could use AI to help you design
performance-based learning. So I'm going to go back here to WIDS. Let's just say I
have my course description, okay? I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to copy
that. Now, I'm not a Chad G. Kravitz either, okay? But we're going to try this. So I'm
going to paste it in here, and then I'm going to say, using this course
description, come up with a variety of performance-based learning activities
that could be done with a, be done in an animal nutrition course for associate
degree level students. And I've never done this before, so let's see what
happens here. Ration formulation, rationality, feed cost optimization, life
stage adjustment exercise, nutritional needs of different species. Notice they're
starting to give us tasks. Comparative nutrition setting. Let's just say I wish, I
wish I had this like 10 years ago, five years ago, right? When I was revising this.
Feedstuffs, okay? And as we look through this, notice we can, they've got sub verbs
in here, right? Performance evidence, identification, understanding. So we
could, you could take that advisory role. Oh, I like that. You could take that and
you can look at what they have and use that to get you started, okay? When it
comes to writing your competencies and objectives, okay? A few little tweaks that
need to be done. You know how many hours I spent trying to analyze this list to
figure out which verb I wanted to use, right? And so it comes quite a bit. Any
questions on anything? Any questions from those of you online? Okay, what I want you
to do right now is I want you to log into WIDS and I know there's a lot of
adult education instructors online. I don't know what your access is. If you
don't have access to WIDS, I did put in Schoology here some WIDS examples. I
threw some, I just randomly went out there and put some course outcome
summaries that have these competencies and stuff in there. So feel free to use
those. Those of you that are program instructors, I really would like you to
go into WIDS if you can. Miranda, I don't know if you have access to WIDS. Okay, so
hopefully you can get in. If not, I was gonna say you can share with Lauren, but
good. Get into WIDS. Ty, I can help you get in. Find a course that you teach and I
really want you to take about 10 minutes here and I want you to review and check
out those competencies and objectives and are you seeing terms
they're related to Bloom's? And then I want you to think of, as you'll see in
WIDS, we talked about there's examples there of things that you can do to
assess that performance, phase 30, but I want you to think, especially because
you're the ones teaching this class now, right? What would you do? What could you
do as a performance-based assessment to test, assess that competency? Is it
tweaking one you already use? Do you have another idea that's coming to mind
that could maybe be better of what was used by your predecessor, okay? So I want
to take some time now. Like I said, I'll start with about 10 minutes and really
work through that, see what you can find, see what you can come up with, and then
we'll come back and share. Those of you online, go ahead and do this. In about 10
minutes, I'm gonna actually put those of you in line into breakout groups so that
way you can share with each other what you came up with. Any questions on
that? Christine, this is Marlene Klein. I don't know if this is appropriate or
not. My curriculum, our all basic ed curriculum, we have it on the Wisconsin
Technical College site. How do we download? Does it automatically download?
All right, that's a question that I'm not aware. I can't help you with that question, Marlene.
All right, that's fine. Thank you. I don't know if maybe some of the other adult
education instructors can help you with that, but I'm, yeah, sorry. No, that's fine. I just
threw it out there because I can look at my thing on the Wisconsin Technical
College site, so that's not a problem. I just was curious to see if there was an easy way to download
into our WIDS. Yeah, that would be at least a Tina question. Those of you that are adult ed,
thank you for bringing that up, Marlene, that you have access to what you guys have to teach in
those competencies on the website. Feel free to go use that instead of WIDS and to look at your
guys' specific because I want you to really make this activity related to what you're doing
in the classes that you teach. So go do that. And like I said, in about 10 minutes,
I'll put online into breakout groups. You guys can share with each other.
Adult ed curriculum is also...
This stuff is going to be rewritten by the end of the year. Those of you online,
I am going to go ahead and mute the classroom right now, try to help me remember guys in here
that I'm meeting so you're not hearing the backfeed in us talk.
Okay, those of you online... Oh, I see a chat. Did I miss that?
I'm going to go ahead and break those of you online into, I think, three breakout groups.
And you guys can just share a little bit about the information that you found, the competencies,
and that you feedback virtual, shared neighbor feedbacks, share maybe the performance
assessment idea you came up with. And I'll give you a few minutes to that and then I'll bring you
back in. All right, breakout rooms. I'm going to put you into three and I'm just going to do
assign automatically and you'll just go. Here we go.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Okay, so those of you here face-to-face.
Megan, are you on virtual? Yeah, I just figured since all of the
adult ed people are in there, if I have questions for them.
Okay, if we, like when we, because we're trying to do this at the end, like
little things, if you want to like go up across the
hallway to a different room, like join their breakout room to discuss
some of them, I would be cool with that, okay?
All right, all right, all right.
Everybody back? I'm doing this. All right, is everybody
back? Good, I hope that those of you online
enjoyed some sharing with your groups about what the different
things that you learned. We're going to, we discussed
here in the class, and we're just, I want to go ahead and keep moving
on. If you need to step away from your computer for a minute or two,
feel free to, but because those of us on campus do have something else
at 12 30, I'm just going to go ahead and keep moving
and pushing through this right now. So, we're going to move on, let me get the
power point up. Okay,
I have them on there. Okay, activity time.
Okay, and I knew that. All right, so we're going to move on to
formative and summative assessment. Okay, so what is the difference
between formative and summative assessment? Formative assessment is
when we evaluate how someone is learning
material throughout a course. Okay, typically
it takes place during a course. You do it on a regular basis.
It's very flexible. It helps to keep students engaged.
This type of assessment does not necessarily
have to be be graded. Okay, so for example,
some formative assessments that I do when I'm
lecturing throughout a powerpoint, I might
every few slides, I'll say review and I'll pop up. We'll do two or three
like true false open-ended questions and I'll just have
students shout out the answers. Okay, and if
they're seeing lost or whatever, then I'll be like, okay, well let's go
back and talk. Or if nobody answers, okay, where are you confused?
So I can kind of assess that right there.
Sometimes I do table talks. All right, again, same thing every few
slides is I'll be like, table talk. Turn to your neighbor. Turn to your
people at the table and talk for a minute,
30 seconds, short time frame. Share what we just learned.
Repeat. Repeat that phrase, that acronym trying to get into your head. Say that to
each other. Okay, those are simple things that can be
done as you're going throughout the day.
Review questions beginning of class over what we talked about the day before.
Okay, and that's a pretty common one. Hey, we talked about this yesterday or
you know, last time we met. How do we go about doing that?
No card at the end of the week. I've tried this before. Some people
like do a no card or post it every class period. I did just at the end
of the week and I would have them. They couldn't leave class so they handed
me the no card and they could ask a question that they had
or something that they learned that week. I feel that when I do that
sometimes it gives those students that are a little hesitant to speak up in
class and say I'm confused about this. I don't really understand. They might
and they don't have to put their name on these no cards, okay?
But you learn you learn writing, right? So you know who's
after time. But you know and sometimes it gives them
a little confidence to say, hey, can you review this because I'm really not
understanding it? And so then you can come back and you
can do that in class. Okay, so formative. We're evaluating
as we're learning. Summative is to evaluate how much someone has learned
throughout the course. Typically this is going to be
some type of final evaluation at the end of a unit,
at the end of a course, and it's usually cumulative. It's going to
cover everything. The ultimate goal of this is to evaluate
the long-term retention of materials, okay? So examples of this
include unit test, final exam or project for a course,
capstone projects, an in-depth report or presentation, a personal reflection
paper. Here, right in the technical college system, and we're going to talk a
little bit about it towards later, but we rely on on TSA, right?
Technical skill attainment. How are we showing that our students
are demonstrating these technical skills that we say they're going to do?
Okay, and if you talk to Lisa, as she Lisa Riley, not Lisa P.
Riley, Lisa Riley, she will tell you that ideally you want
these TSAs to be at the end, right? The end of the
program. How can we test, see what these students have done? So for us,
in animal science, we have a capstone project, and they actually build that
capstone project pretty much their whole second year there on campus,
and they build different parts of it in various classes,
and then they combine it all together at the end. They have to do a do a report on
it, okay? So can they do that? Another
summative example that I do is, actually in the
animal science program, we'll do it, is we make them analyze a font.
In our dairy students, they actually participate in what's called
Midwest Dairy Challenge, where they have to go
and analyze a farm, all the data from the farm, and then they have to
on everything from health to reproduction to financials,
they go and they tour the farm, and they have to look at the buildings and
ventilation and all that stuff, and then they come back,
and they like to consult it. So they're taking everything they learned in all
their individual classes, okay, in their health class, in their
housing class, in their retro class, and they're applying it
to this farm and analyzing it and saying, okay, hey,
these are some strengths that you have, these are some opportunities, maybe you
can tweak this vaccination plan, maybe you should add some fans to do
that. So that's what the dairy students do, and they actually
do it with students from other colleges. I've applied it and tweaked that
we do it on the livestock side, and I do the exact same thing
with some beef farmers in the area. I have three different beef farmers that
I rotate through, so they only have to do it every three
once every three years. I don't ask the beef farmers for financials, we don't get
into that, but we do the exact same thing. They go out
end of their last semester, they analyze the farm, can they bring it all together?
Can they take everything we've done? So that's kind of our
summative assessment, are we bringing, can they,
have they taken everything that they learned and brought it together?
So I think I put this on Schoology, I don't know if I did, this is just
on half of the page, but this here is something I have hanging in my office,
and you can probably find these on Google too, or chat jpt to help you.
These are examples of learner-centered teaching to help them kind of teach
themselves learn. A lot of these make good informative
assessments as you're working through it, okay?
Cooperative learning, I think we're good at brainstorming, create media, discussion,
jigsaw, small groups. So again, these are just some ideas, I think this is on
Schoology. If it's not, I will put it on there. If anyone would like to see
a copy of this whole thing that I have hanging in my office, I'm more than willing
to do that. So again, we have the use of AI for this, so we could build on this
nutrition one. So we're going to say, I'm going to say take number one,
okay. You're showing a PowerPoint, we can't see it on the remote end.
No, I'm not showing a PowerPoint. I have chat jpt up. Do you see that?
No. You just stopped sharing your screen. Oh, I just stopped sharing instead of,
all right, hold on there with me. Thanks for letting me know. Okay, now do you see chat jpt?
Yes, okay. All right, good. So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to build on what we have here,
and I'm going to, I'm not, again, I'm not the expert, but I might be able to say something,
but I'm just going to go ahead and copy this first one here, and I'm going to put it back here,
paste it down here, and I'm going to ask it, say using the above, design some formative
and summative
assessments, okay. Let's see what they suggest, okay. Nutrient requirement identification
test check. Given a scenario, have them identify. So we're using a scenario situation here. Worksheet
or quiz. Using the Pearson square. You know what the Pearson square is? Cool, right? Having them
actually do that. Worksheet, okay. So you can see just using peer review and discussions, okay. So
you can see using chat jpt and AI can also help you analyze what you might do for
for
assessments. Back to my PowerPoint here. So in WIDS, when you do design your curriculum in WIDS
and you're choosing your assessment strategies, they will give you, they will give you some
options. So again, to kind of help with that brain freeze, that brain fog, what I want to do,
and I can't really show you because I don't have a course in like a work in progress to build on
assessment, but you can see they have, they give you ideas in WIDS. This is copied right from WIDS.
A case study, a written objective test, a scenario, identification, skill demonstration,
right? Wait, Cosmo, skill demonstration. It's a big one that's going to come up there. So those
are different ways that you can assess. And when you see, and when you look at, right, if we go back
to, right, we go back to, we go back to WIDS and your course outcome summary, right? We have examples
right here, assessment strategies. So all these assessment strategies that you're seeing here
came, most of them came from WIDS, okay? Sometimes because of specific classes that you
teach, okay? Awesome, I pick on you, right? You might say assessment track, assessment strategies
using, physically like using the robots in the classroom, right? Well, WIDS doesn't have using
robots in the classroom as an option, right? I believe you can like add that to it, okay? Or
you could just be, it could just be something as like using appropriate equipment for the thing,
right? So sometimes based on, these you can see are very, very generic, but sometimes based on
the specific program that you're teaching, your, or class that you're teaching, that assessment,
those assessment strategies could be, could be very specific. So what I want you to do right now
is you can, and it can be the, the class that you're using. I want you to think and don't
forget to use chat JPT to come up with, and you can look through what you have in WIDS, there might
be something there, come up with an example of a formative and summative assessment that you might
use in your class, okay? And then we're going to share that, and then you're going to share that
with, with the group. So online, think about the class that you were looking at, think about a
formative and summative assessment that you might use. And actually I'll have you guys share with,
with the, with the large group, a couple of you, when we come in a few minutes after you think
about that. I've got 10 minutes here on the slide, but I might cut it to like, I'm actually just got
my timer for eight. When I do things like this in the classroom, I do tend to set my timer on my book
or like I have a kitchen timer to help kind of. That's the reason why I have a smartwatch is to set
my timer on.
Thank you.
Okay, so I'm going to ask two people in the face-to-face group to share some, at least
one assessment, either formative or summative, that they came up with for their course.
And I'd like to have two people online share a couple of ideas that they came up with.
So how about we go one face-to-face, one online, one face-to-face, one online.
So is there someone in the classroom here that would like to share with everyone an
idea that they came up with for an formative or summative assessment?
Any volunteers?
Okay, go ahead.
Go ahead, Megan.
I just don't want to be the only one to volunteer.
Okay, so I was back in those communications slash RLA requirements on WIDS, and I was
looking at the standard is communicate effectively using current technology.
So for formative, I thought we could analyze different written and video news stories for
meaning, style of language, just because this is the last of the standards.
And before that, it's like determine bias, determine style of language, determine purpose
of the communication, whatever it is.
And so are they trying to convince you of something?
Do they have any bias in their language?
Is there information that's missing, how trustworthy are they, et cetera?
And then they can write an outline for a speech or paper based off of that.
So what is the thesis, what are the good ideas here?
And we can also look at a bunch of different styles of communication as well, just to tie
it to different subjects.
So one of the ways that I could tie it to social studies curriculum is, can we look
at, there have been several historical events through the United States history where the
president has come onto television and addressed the whole country.
I'm thinking FDR after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, George Bush after 9-11.
So what are the topics that they're talking about?
What is their goal?
What is their potential bias?
Can you outline?
So actually connecting two subject areas into one, very good.
Good idea.
Okay.
Can I have somebody online share a formative or summative assessment idea that they came
up with?
I can go.
All right.
I think this is it.
So I teach ESL, the very beginning of it.
So one of the first things we do is teach how to introduce themselves, say hello, ask
questions about what you do for work, where are you from type of things.
So what I do is I teach the concept first and we teach the language, they practice the
language and then toward the end of the class time, we'll take some time to tie it all together
and have a short conversation with them just to make sure that they are able to do that.
Is that kind of like what you mean?
Yep.
Good.
Definitely reach out and having them conversate first with each other.
That's great.
Okay.
Thank you for sharing, Jennifer.
And Ty is in the classroom face-to-face here and he's going to go ahead and share an idea
he came up with.
Go ahead, Ty.
So for course competency, the competency reads the learner identifies proper personal protective
equipment.
So idea for a formative project would be to print it out in different scenarios and workplace
throughout the agriculture setting and having these working groups come up identifying what
potential hazards there are, what PPE should be used and why each item is necessary for
the PPE.
And then another competency that goes hand in hand with that being the learner performs
proper safety habits.
So that could actually be a summative in person that they identify a safety hazard that is
present and they demonstrate wearing proper PPE while they're doing a task.
All right.
Excellent.
That's a good way.
Thank you.
All right.
And one more from somebody online.
Somebody online.
Stacey, did you want to talk?
I see you're unmuted.
Yes.
Yes, I'm actually working on curriculum for the technical colleges for personal finance.
That's going to be required in a few years for the GED students.
But I taught the class and an example of a summative would be like budgeting, you know,
learning how to budget your money and things like that.
And there's a free program where you can go and you have to figure out how to get a magician
to Las Vegas so he can perform there and you have to budget your money.
And it's just a fun game, but it shows them how to budget because things come up like
the magician gets a flat tire.
He has to you have to choose what kind of tricks for him to do at the shows that he's
leading up to Vegas.
So it's just something that they can figure out budgeting and they have to try and get
him to Vegas.
They don't always make it to Vegas and they can, you know, review what should I have done
differently.
That sounds fun.
That sounds fun.
So definitely a different way to make a way to get them to to apply and learn.
And you can maybe then take it one step further and I'll be like, OK, now that you did this
game with this magician, you're planning your own trip.
What type of budget do you have to have for your own trip to kind of do and stuff?
So thank you very much, Stacey, for sharing.
OK, now I've got to share.
All right.
So we're going to go back to the PowerPoint and we're going to talk a little bit about
rubrics.
OK, we have a couple of videos to start out here to help us understand what a rubric is
and the benefits of of using rubrics.
Hey, everyone, welcome to our YouTube video on the benefits of using rubrics to assess
student learning.
In this video, we'll discuss the importance of rubrics, their benefits and how they can
improve student learning outcomes.
Rubrics are a powerful tool that helps teachers to evaluate and grade student work.
They provide a clear set of criteria for measuring student performance and help to ensure that
grading is consistent, objective and fair.
Here are some of the key benefits of using rubrics to assess student learning.
Improved clarity rubrics provide clear and specific criteria for measuring student performance.
This clarity helps students understand what is expected of them, which can lead to increased
engagement and motivation.
When students know what they need to do to succeed, they are more likely to take ownership
of their learning and work towards achieving their goals.
Additionally, rubrics can help teachers communicate their expectations to students more effectively,
reducing confusion and misunderstandings.
Better feedback rubrics provide detailed feedback to students on their performance in specific
areas of an assignment.
This feedback helps students understand where they excelled and where they need to improve.
When students receive feedback that is detailed and specific, they are more likely to take
that feedback into account when revising their work.
Additionally, rubrics can help teachers provide feedback in a more efficient and effective
manner.
With a well-designed rubric, teachers can quickly identify areas where students need
improvement and provide feedback that is targeted to those areas.
Objective and consistent grading rubrics are designed to be objective and consistent, which
ensures that grading is fair and unbiased.
When teachers use rubrics to grade assignments, they are less likely to be influenced by personal
biases or preferences.
This means that all students are graded fairly and consistently based on their performance
against the rubric criteria.
Rubrics can help teachers ensure that they are assessing all students on the same criteria,
which can help to eliminate discrepancies in grading.
Improved learning outcomes rubrics can help improve student learning outcomes by providing
students with a clear understanding of what is expected of them.
When students understand what they need to do to succeed, they are more likely to engage
with the material and work towards achieving their goals.
Additionally, rubrics can help students focus their efforts on specific areas of an assignment
that they need to improve on.
When students receive feedback that is targeted to their specific needs, they are more likely
to take that feedback into account and work towards improving their skills and knowledge.
Overall, rubrics are an effective tool for assessing student learning.
They provide clarity, feedback, and consistency, which can help to improve student engagement,
motivation, and learning outcomes.
If you're a teacher, consider using rubrics in your classroom to assess student work and
help your students achieve their full potential.
So that gives you some ideas on what a rubric is and the benefits of using it.
This is the next short video.
This one's like 30 seconds.
For me, the rubric should be telling the student, am I on the right track?
The student should be able to refer to the rubric and just say, not, here's what you
next, because that's definitely going to improve the work, but not improve the learner.
But I think the rubric can be helpful in reassuring the student, you're on the right track, or
actually, you've forgotten an important element that you need to do to support your argument
in this history essay, for example.
So that was a short, sweet one, really talking about how rubrics can help the individuals.
So rubrics are not only used for assessment purposes, but I feel that rubrics help with
communication.
It helps create the clear communication to the student what you're looking for.
And so what we've got here is examples of some rubrics that I use in my classroom.
The top one here is a very, I call it a very generic rubric.
It's a short answer rubric that I use pretty much all my short answer questions on my unit
exams.
And you can see it's just length, terms from class, and isn't understandable.
Because a lot of times I'll throw on a scenario question, like in my plant and soil science
class, an example of a simple essay question I have on there is you work in an agronomy
center.
A new person to the area who's never farmed before walks in, wants advice on their soil
type, on how to properly grow their crops.
And they bring in a sample with them, and you can tell right away that they have a very
high sandy soil.
What are you going to tell them about sandy soil and growing their crops?
And so I say length, because length oftentimes, and I have found that even just using the
words, like the more details the better, doesn't always work.
Because Kylie might think that in her mind, two sentences is plenty of details, and Lauren's
going to write ten, right?
So sometimes you need to make clear exactly what I'm saying.
So you can see very simple here.
I want, give me a minimum of four sentences.
Notice that I have sentences or bullet points.
Because for me, when I look at my students, okay, sometimes they're not going to be the
strong English communicators.
They're not going to write very well or have struggled for me.
Do I want to form a sentence?
Yes.
But they might struggle.
But are they more comfortable and more confident explaining that in a bullet point versus a
complete sentence?
For the classes that I teach, I'm okay with that.
Right?
And again, that's kind of giving them some choice.
So minimum of four sentences, and then I'm like, okay, are you using terms from the class?
Are they talking about leech?
Sand likes to leech.
Sand's not going to hold water.
It's very granular.
You're going to have, are they using the specific terms that we talked about?
And then are the thoughts organized?
Understandable.
Do they make sense?
Or do they leave me asking questions?
Okay.
So that's a very simple rubric.
But I use this for grading, for grading essay contests or essay contests.
Essay questions on the test.
And, you know, the students can see the rubric.
I have learned in school that when I do do essay questions in the essay question itself,
I'll be like, make sure to look at the rubric before you answer this, because you can tell
who doesn't look at the rubric.
Right?
Because you can just speak just with how they answer it.
This discussion board rubric, I believe this is the discussion, the general template
discussion board rubric that was put together a number of years ago in Schoology for discussion.
You can see it's three pretty areas.
The initial, post timing and relevance, replying and clarity mechanics and references.
So that one, that is that one.
Those are cooler stuff.
A couple examples here of some other rubrics I use.
This is the rubric that I use in rubrics.
There's not like one size fits all.
Okay.
You can design the rubric based for your assignment, based for your class of what you want.
So the one on the left here is the rubric that I use for the final project in my quality
class.
Okay.
There are the students have to research a niche market in the livestock, the meat industry,
such as like that.
Oh, well, example, somebody might do like organic pork or certified.
Okay.
And so you can see those are the question that they have to do.
And they know right away, especially when it's timing.
Okay.
You're supposed to talk up to six minutes.
You can't talk.
If you decide you're only going to talk less than four minutes, you're only going to get
one point.
Okay.
So I break it out like that.
And sometimes it is okay just to even if you have like a scale like three, two, one, zero
where you're not given an option.
It's either you get all your points or you don't.
Okay.
Do you list your sources?
Well, either you did or you don't.
Right.
You're either going to get three points or you're going to get zero.
There's no in between.
Okay.
So it's okay to use to use that.
And so again, that one dries out.
And then the other one is one that is built in Schoology.
You can tell the way that was there.
But this is again, I think I told a little bit about the final where they have to look
at each of these.
So look again.
Okay.
I'm looking at the length, the terminology and the reasoning.
Okay.
Are you explaining four sentences or bullet points?
Are you using nutrition terms in each sentence?
Okay.
Are you showing in depth thought and understanding of nutrition and forage reports?
And so I do that.
You can see I do that for the best, one of the worst, the best, the worst.
And so that's an example of some rubrics that I have here as well.
If you can design rubrics in Schoology.
So if you are in Schoology.
If you go in and you add a new assignment.
You can when you choose your scale or rubric down here.
If you have one that's already created, it will be listed or you just do create new.
And you can see here this is how what it looks like.
And you can give it a title.
So like, you know, and once you create it, you can link it to all your courses.
Like that short answer one I have.
I use that in all my courses.
And then your criteria, you know, so this is where I have that like length.
If you want a description a little bit more, you can.
But let's say I just want to do three, two, one.
I can just, you saw that I just hit the X and I got rid of that.
And then you can come in here and you can change it.
If I want to add a new one, I just add criteria.
And so you can make this if I wanted to change this and make this like 10, 10, 8, 6, you can.
So you can create rubrics right in in Schoology for certain assignments.
Other thing to take into consideration is I have heard people using ChapGPT for making rubrics.
All right. So you can put in like all the specifications for your assignment.
And then you can tell ChapGPT create a Likert scale rubric starting at five and going to zero.
Here are the categories to use to to assess this assignment.
And so when you do that, it will spit it out and give you a starting place, right?
You could you can definitely tweak that and then put it into work.
So I'm taking I want you to take about I'll give you about seven minutes right now.
And I want you to think of an assignment that you currently have that you maybe could introduce a rubric to.
OK. Or maybe you have a rubric for an assignment that you're like, I want to tweak this.
So take about seven minutes right now.
Think about that rubric and draw out, sketch out on paper or word, whatever.
Use ChapGPT. What a rough rubric like that might look like.
OK. So take a take seven minutes and reflect on making a rubric for for a class or an assignment or an assignment that you would do.
Any questions online what you're doing?
All right. Give you a seven minute work time.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
All right.
Welcome back.
My seven minute timer went off.
I hope that you enjoyed working on on your rubrics and got some ideas on how you can use them moving forward.
We are going to go ahead and take a break now.
So let's take about 10 minutes.
I've got 1025.
So at 1035, we'll come back and we'll pick up with communicating feedback to students.
All right.
So go ahead.
Take 10 minutes.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Okay.
Hopefully those of you that are online are working your way back to your computers and can hear me.
I know Megan should be right back, but we're going to go ahead and keep moving.
I hope that you aren't getting something out of the session today.
I'm trying to make it educational and useful so you can apply it to what you're actually doing.
All right.
So we're going to you're done with rubrics.
We're going to move on to this feedback.
Feedback, feedback, feedback.
Okay.
I want you guys to think about for a moment the time in your life, and it doesn't have to be education.
It can just be any time in your life when feedback was valuable to them.
And how did you use that feedback to improve?
Okay.
So in your personal life or in your careers, it could be another career.
Think about a time when feedback was valuable and how you use that feedback to improve to yourself.
Now, I'm not going to ask you to share, but I'm sure we all have a time or two where even if it wasn't positive feedback,
if it was given in the right way that we were able to improve and to become better from that.
Right.
So when you think about feedback, it should be timely and specific.
All right.
So, you know, you don't want to write it.
If something happened last semester, hopefully your supervisor here on campus addressed it shortly after it happened.
Right.
Or positive or negative.
If they are coming to you next week, the first week of school and being like, hey, I want to talk to you about XYZ that happened back in October.
That's not really timely feedback.
Right.
But I mean, that could also be situational for some reason, if it was something dealing with a student and the student just came forward.
Well, then maybe it is considered timely.
Right.
But you really want it to be timely, constructive and encouraging.
Okay.
So, yeah, you know, here, this is encouraging.
Encourage them to do good, but yet be constructive at the same time, helping them to improve.
I know when I, it's funny how you learn things and you don't, you're not trying to learn things to apply to your life.
When I was working on my master's degree, one thing I picked up in the first year of high school was that I didn't know how to write.
One thing I picked up in the feedback from instructors on assignments and stuff was they always tended to start the feedback with something positive.
Okay.
And so, I and so and so that, that stuck with me.
Okay.
You know, about the assignment or whatever, they always talked about the good things first.
the assignment or whatever. They always talked about the good things first. And so when I'm giving
feedback to students on assignments, I kind of have switched my mindset. I've tried to be very
conscious about saying something positive first, okay? Because think about it, right? If you hear
something negative yourself first, what happens? Or you read something negative, right? Your
self-esteem goes down, your emotions go down. You're going to take the rest of the feedback.
Who knows how, right? But if you hear something positive first, you know, and then be like,
hey, I'm going to pick a good chasm, okay? To your side manners or whatever. You know, you can be
like, hey, you know, you started out great. You did good. You welcomed the client. You called them
by their name. You greeted them, shook their hand, whatever. But then as I was, and then as
you were going through it, you kind of got quiet, right? Maybe you focused a little bit too much,
which they probably do at first, on focused on the task at hand and getting the hairs done or
getting the nails done. You know, maybe in the future, maybe try asking a couple of questions
and learning about. Do you think that student's going to take that feedback a little different
than just saying, you didn't do a good job. You need to ask, talk and ask more questions.
You're probably going to take it differently, right? So just think about how you can do that.
Clear goals and expectations, try to personalize it. Again, this constructive criticism,
balance that critique and praise, okay? So even if it's something that is really, really bad,
and this is challenging sometimes, you try to find that little positive, that little praise in
there when we're giving feedback, right? Because we all know that you want that praise. You want
that pat on the back somehow. Actionable and specific steps, non-comparative opportunities
for self-assessment, continuous improvement, respectful and supportive. You know, when we
talk about like actionable and specific steps, one thing could be like the next time you do this,
try X, Y, Z, right? Here's steps that you can try to do that. And then work your way through that.
Okay. I want you to pause for a moment. Just take about, when you design,
when you design, we're going to come back to this in a second. I think I got more talking points on
my sheet here. When designing assignments, it is important to be clear what you are looking for to
aid you in providing your feedback. So think about, we just talked about rubrics, right?
And improving using rubrics, and they can help you with that feedback. If you're saying, okay,
if you have a specific, and this could work with medical lab tech too, if they're dealing with
customers, right? Did you introduce the talk, you know, welcome them by name first?
That could be on the rubric question. Did you ask them a couple of questions to try to learn about
them, right? Well, if that's specifically on the rubric, you know, you can say, no, you didn't do
this, you know, so here's, do that. And maybe give, maybe in class, you guys could brainstorm,
what are some questions you might ask clients to learn more about them,
okay? And have them come up with a list of questions, and then they could have that maybe
in their background. So as we're planning for feedback and using rubrics for that,
it's important to know, just keep that in mind. And it's when you're laying out those
assignments to make sure, sure that you're clear. I find that attaching the rubric to the assignment
using bullet points on assignments to say, this is what I'm looking for, instead of like paragraph
form tends to work very well with clear communication and provide that feedback, because
the student can kind of use it like a checklist, and they can work their way down. This is what I
need to do on this assignment. And so that can become pretty, pretty useful. I do have some
resources on Schoology for you on feedback, in the feedback section here. So there's different,
these are just different ways, articles that you can read on your own, to talk about
ways to provide feedback, and how to do it. And those are just for you to read on your own.
So what I want you to do right now is, I want you to think of some ways you want to improve
your feedback to your students. How can you improve feedback to students when you're talking
with them? I'll give you about, take about three, take just a couple minutes to think about that.
And then I want you to share with your neighbor and talk about feedback, how you can bounce ideas
off each other with sharing feedback. Those of you online, I'm going to put you into
breakout rooms again, to allow you to chat, talk about ways that you can
use feedback in the classroom in different things, and share ideas back and forth.
So I'll put you in breakout rooms again, and we'll do this for about six, seven minutes.
When you're ready, Ty, if you want to come sit over here, you could chat with
Austin and Megan about feedback. And Kylie, you can talk with
household ladies. Learn to take advantage of their services. Yeah.
I don't know if you got any big ideas. Did they have any special questions?
No, they haven't. They have.
Can I hear something that could be very good? Or what's going to work for them?
Very reasonable questions.
Yes.
If it's about the time that you get to teaching, then it would be timely for an attorney.
It would be timely for them to improve.
Especially since we all need to do a lot of other stuff, and we need to regulate
the time.
I guess that would help. But for me, one of the things,
you need to do is coordinate times and space.
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
you
oh my gosh ladies and gentlemen online I'm so sorry I just remembered I was muted
all right so now you can hear me all right so I'm going to repeat I hope you
enjoyed sharing with with each other about learning feedback birthday September
and talk about universal design for learning when you think about
universal design the concept really first came to mind when people think of
universal design regarding like facilities okay making sure that people
in wheelchairs can get into the building people have in wheelchair with
disabilities can get up and down stairs okay but when we it can also be applied
to learning into curriculum design into assessment and so a few years ago the
the the college really embraced and embarked on this idea of including
universal design for learning into our our teaching and learning here in campus
so we're gonna start by watching a video to learn exactly what UD universal
design at the college level means
you
learning is really
you
we can't hear your video
repeat say that we're not able to hear your video you can't hear the video okay
thank you
there's stuff is hiding behind okay
well it's shared
hey all right it's saying that the sound is shared so let's try this again
well maybe I'll just stop shared
hey
Martin
Learning is really a lifelong journey and when students come to post-secondary
they're incredibly different. They have a wide range of strengths and weaknesses and
UDL is really about how to make that learning journey tractable for as many
of those learners as possible.
I think UDL is important because of the variability that we have across learners.
We often think about individuals with disabilities as individuals at the
margins and that if we can develop or create learning environments for those
individuals at either end of the bell curve we go a long way towards addressing
the needs of everyone else in between.
We've seen an enormous growth in interest in using UDL ranging from
individual faculty members wanting to use it to whole departments to sometimes
whole institutions wanting to adopt it as an approach to really better serving
the broad range of students that are on campus.
It is not about faculty being the experts or administrators being the experts
but the ethos of we're all in this together.
In a UDL classroom I felt like I wasn't you know feeling bad because you know I
didn't participate like another student. I was more so looking at myself and
trying to be my best learner.
I think this is really made my learning deeper. It's different to me than
lecture-based courses where I sort of hear information think it's really
interesting but then end up forgetting it down the line.
UDL is really critical for helping faculty feel like they can teach all
students because it's about designing for all students from the outside.
UDL is really about bringing flexibility and options into the environment by
design so that students will have the resources that they need to make
learning tractable in post-secondary environments.
Okay.
So that gives you a little bit about universal design and on the hub there is
a whole page on the hub design focus on the universal design.
So that way you can go out there and get resources to help you incorporate
some of these activities into your teaching and learning.
A lot of it as we look right here focuses on understanding executive
function and cognitive flow in the minds of our students and that brain development.
They're all coming in at difference and can definitely handle different amounts
of executive function and just understanding how different things look.
So I encourage you to spend some time focusing on that.
And there's a lot of fancy things out there regarding universal design but you
don't have to take and do a lot. Sometimes it can just be something simple.
So, for example, one way that we've incorporated universal design in
agriculture is that every single instructor lays Schoology out the same way.
So what do I mean by that?
So I'm going to go in here to my last semester.
So I don't have the semester set up.
So I go to my Plant and Soil Science class.
Okay, we all have, when I say layout statement, we all lay the coursework
folder out the same way.
We all lay the coursework folder out by week like this.
So that way when students, because the students have all of us as instructors.
They have me, they have Ryan, they have Andrew, they have Kaylee.
So that way as they're bouncing around between instructors, they know that
they're going to find everything for that week for that instructor in that
folder.
What we were seeing before we did this is that some instructors like in
under coursework, they had like a folder for tests.
They had a folder for assignments, like in-class assignments.
They had a folder for out-of-class assignments.
And so students were just very confused because they would find it in one place
on somebody's Schoology page.
They would find it, they could find it on another instructor's Schoology page.
So we found that by incorporating a simple layout like this amongst all
instructors that it really helps with that cognitive load.
And we're not dealing with in-class certain things as they're trying to
monitor between instructors.
And in fact, when we do this, when we bring an adjunct on, right, Ty, we tell
our adjuncts, we want you to lay out your course in Schoology this way.
And it's a simple universal design factor, but it really has helped our students
comprehend, okay, that's why I put the dates there.
Hey, I missed September, I missed a class this week.
Well, they can just go in and go right to this folder with this date and see what
they, right.
I don't have to specifically as an instructor say, you know, this PowerPoint,
find this PowerPoint, find this whatever in the PowerPoint folder or this
assignment here.
It's right there.
And so that is an example of something we've done.
Believe it or not, the use of rubrics is a universal design for learning that you
can use.
And part of that is it details directions.
Okay.
The more to the students of reducing that cognitive load by having detailed
directions out there.
Some other things, a couple years ago, there's a, we partnered with a college
called Landmark College out in Vermont that specifically deals, focuses on
training people across the country on this topic of universal design.
And they are a special needs college designed for special needs students.
And they implement this universal design learn throughout their curriculum.
And a group of us from campus actually got to go to their conference during the
summer out in Vermont to really learn about universal design.
And it was really instrumental in kind of changing as the way I think about do
some things in the classroom.
How many of you have, I'm going to get the room number wrong, but that room in
200 was like the tables where you can stand where we had speed of trust.
Tables you can stand has other comfortable chairs.
Okay.
That room was a, is a universal designed room to help make students more
comfortable.
Okay.
Get in a, get in a situation, get in a, a mode sitting where you're
comfortable.
I especially like the stand up tables in that room.
Now I think we should have some of the higher stand up tables.
I don't know so much about the lazy boy type chairs, but you sat in one of
those.
You were comfy.
Megan did.
Megan did.
But, you know, I, you know, so that doing something like that is universal
design.
Fidget toys.
Okay.
I have fidget toys on my desk or on my tables in my classroom.
Okay.
I teach farm kids.
Okay.
They don't sit still.
Okay.
Okay.
I find that by providing some simple fidget toys, this is another universal
design thing, for them to play with.
Guess what?
They're not playing.
Their phone.
Okay.
So I provide fidget toys for them to, to sit there and fidget with while
they are, while they're listening to lectures and doing stuff.
And I actually do find that at times.
The only thing else I do is I feed them.
What do I mean by I feed them?
I use Jolly Ranchers.
My coworker, Ryan, he uses Dumb Dumb Suckers.
But when my personal children were in elementary school, I remember one of my
kids coming home one day talking about state testing since they were giving
them like either gum to chew or like candy to suck on while they were doing
their state testing to help them focus.
But if they're doing this with elementary school kids and it works, what
about college students?
Right?
So I buy Jolly Ranchers, buy the bulk off of the Amazon, and I keep
handfuls of Jolly Ranchers with the fidget toys on the tables.
So same thing.
If they want something to suck on, help them focus or whatever, they can come
in and they can have a Jolly Rancher or they can get a Dumb Dumb from Ryan.
I know it kind of sounds silly, but you'd be amazed.
No, no it doesn't.
I had a middle school teacher that did something similar in social studies class
except she would give us notes when we did reviews for tests and then again when
we did the actual test and there is a link between taste and remembering things
very strongly.
If you have that, it's just like a very good trigger.
So I used to miss it.
Yeah.
So I mean, I know those little things work, right?
I know as an adult, I've been to some bigger sessions for organizations or
different things I've been involved with and they provided adult fidget toys to
help concentrate and stuff.
So it's again, just little things to think about that you can do that really
sometimes helps those students focus.
Now, I don't know, maybe medical lab tech, you might not want food because maybe
they can't have food in the lab and stuff, but I mean are there certain other
things that you can do to really help those students focus?
And that's what universal design is really about.
Focusing on cognitive load, helping, working on communication.
Sometimes in Landmark, they talked about how basically they talk to their
students that it's okay to walk out of a classroom.
Like if a student is feeling overwhelmed, they need to kind of reset their mind,
reset their cognitive load, the student needs to stand up and walk out of class
and kind of gather themselves and then come back, like that's okay.
And so I encourage you, those of you that are new, as you're building your
professional development plans and stuff for next year and the future, I really
encourage you to maybe do some studying, some learning about universal design.
Chris Bowers on campus in the Knox is our go-to person about UDL, but Betsy
Tollefson, I think this is supposed to be Betsy Tollefson, was also one of the
core people when the college really did this.
And so you will see all these resources here regarding universal design.
Okay, any questions on universal design or anything?
All right, I'm going to go ahead and move right into sometimes, where's my color?
Okay, so I want you to think, I'm not going to have you share again just because
I'm trying to push here today, really think about is there one little thing
that you can do this semester from the universal design aspect to incorporate
it into your classroom, whether it be fidget toys, maybe it's you're going to
switch the layout of your school to be more clear.
Maybe it's just something as simple as using a rubric or two on there to really
try to figure things out, okay?
Any questions or comments on universal design?
Okay, we're going to push through.
We're going to get into the last area for this morning, and that is using data to
inform decision making, using data to inform decision making about the teaching
and learning processes, okay?
So, data drives the decisions the college makes.
Everything we do here at the college goes back to some type of data, and
hopefully those of you that have been adjuncts really aren't involved in IVP and
don't always see the data side as much as full-time instructors, but I know
Lauren has been involved with this, and Kylie, you're going to get involved, and
Austin, you've been involved a little bit, Megan, you're tweaking on it on how
we use this data.
And so, the data that we get should have an impact on the changes you make to
your programs and to your courses, okay?
So, really when we're analyzing assessment, well, everyone did horrible on
that assessment, okay?
Well, yeah, I've got the data here to show that they averaged 60%, right?
That's bad, right?
We obviously don't want that.
You know, so what am I going to do to change that?
And so, then you reflect and you implement and you make changes, and we have a
system designed here on campus to really help that.
So, as you can see here, this is, you will see this on the assessment page on the
hub.
You'll see this hanging in various offices, but this is our culture of assessment
here on campus, and as you can see when you look at these, it impacts, we assess
the co-curriculars and the knowledge core abilities.
I believe that's, we do that through assessing our student employees on campus
and working with students that are assessing students at clubs.
The student level, we assess what's going on inside the classroom.
Faculty level, we have a support day in January to help you.
Course level, these are the course assessments.
We're going to talk a little bit about that and how to do that.
Those are the ones that need to be done with your syllabus and grades.
Program level, that's what we've worked on on Monday, okay, and the IBP
instructional vitality process when we set our TAP plans, and then also at the
college level, the institutional level, we make the advisors, financial aid
office, everyone works through that.
I need to update this slide because I know that one in October and stuff.
So that's the culture of assessment on there.
We also have our culture of, as you see here, these are two very similar cycles,
and they kind of fit together.
That's the culture of learning and the assessment cycle.
So typically when we have learning, okay, we have our health TAP form.
We're going to set our goals from those.
We're going to carry out the plan.
We're going to say did it work?
We're going to use the results.
We're going to keep doing this year after year.
We're going to document it, which is if you take those words and actually
replace them with assessment words, you're going to see that we start by
we establish criteria for success.
We're going to provide the programs and services.
We're going to determine their effectiveness.
We're going to use those results for improvement, and we're going to document it.
Okay.
Now, ultimately, this all, why do we do this?
We do this for the idea of continual improvement.
We want to improve and get better.
And some people ask, well, why do we have to document it the way that we have to document it?
And we have to document it the way that we do because HLC tells us to, right?
We have to prove to HLC that we are assessing, that we are using the data
from those assessment processes to make changes, to improve.
Now, the way that we do it here on Southwest Campus is how we choose to do it.
A different college is going to assess in different ways.
If you came from a different college, you know that.
Or if you go to work for a different college, you will see that.
Okay.
But overall, HLC tells us you have to prove to us that you're assessing your students.
Okay.
And so that's why we do these things.
And a lot of this, what we have in place today is a result of the not good review we had 10 years ago.
Okay.
And so we went from a not good review 10 years ago to where now we get asked to talk about our assessment processes at college conferences.
And people want to know what we're doing because it works.
Okay.
So where do you find the data?
All right.
So get your computers out.
Those of you online, you can play along too.
But some of you, this is going to be familiar because we just did some of this on Monday, the IVP day.
The IVP day.
But the one place to do it is actually, just remember, is on the hub.
On the hub, you go to college effectiveness.
Okay.
Any time you think of data, think of college effectiveness.
Anything data related to college effectiveness.
You can go to college effectiveness.
And a couple different places.
Okay.
First place to start is you're going to go to the data store.
In the data store, this is where in adult education, I'm not quite sure how this works for you guys.
And on the data store, you will see a list of programs.
So, Austin probably played with like Electromech programs, so I don't think the automation has one yet.
So if you just click on your program, you can see it's by school year.
So definitely here we have three years.
And in there, you're going to see what's called your program review report, your PRR.
And that is your PRR, your program review report.
And in this program review report, what we do is in August.
So I know, were you here in August?
Yes.
Okay.
And I know Lauren's been through two of them.
And Kylie, you will go through your first one next August.
Okay.
So in August, the program faculty get together and they review all this data.
And it's put together.
And you can see it's broken down here.
It's broken down into different areas.
Okay.
And you can use the information from here to provide, to answer questions about your program.
So this is important.
I'm going to show you what they used to look like.
So they used to look like this.
The data used to be specifically built into the program report.
So you could see this was last year's, right?
The data comes out.
We look right at our FTEs.
We look at our race, race and ethnicity.
And it goes all the way down.
It even breaks things down by program courses.
We see here program courses.
One thing I like about this is it's color coded.
Okay.
Which makes it, I think, very user friendly.
Okay.
Because if you see anything in red, that means, right?
Okay.
So you can see anything in red.
You know, we didn't have very well-studied performance in those courses.
And so we can look and then typically you want to look and see, okay, maybe classes where students
and students performed poorly, red or yellow, not very good.
What can we do to improve those scores?
So this is our program review report and it has all kinds of good stuff in it.
However, things have changed a little bit.
And now instead of all coming in the program review report,
it is actually on the dashboard.
So again, here in the college effectiveness dashboard,
the information that used to be in the program review report is out here on the dashboard.
So you can go and you can look for it yourself.
And you're going to have to do some building.
So let's, for example, focus on course completion rate.
So I'm going to click on course completion.
Should have permission to view it.
Okay, so it's asking us on me.
So what through Power BI, you have, if anyone can get in, great.
Because obviously I, are you nodding your head?
You're having issues too.
Okay.
So anyways, if you go to the college effectiveness dashboard on there,
you will see a lot of those categories that are in the program review report.
So if I go back to.
I go back to the program review report here.
In this section, right, where it talks about labor market,
like where it goes on here and talks about labor market data.
You can all that data is found on the dashboard.
Okay.
Program review data.
We review gender retention and graduation rates.
All those are on the dashboard.
So you can go out to the dashboard and you can find that information.
And we fill this out in August.
And we do this as a college and on your, your teams.
Okay. And we kind of guide you through it.
And we really want you to take the time.
This is what we call, we talked about it on Wednesday.
This is part of our program review process on campus.
Okay.
How do we know that our programs are doing good?
Where do I need to make changes?
Okay.
And so until this is where, so this is what we do.
And from here, we typically set a tap clean.
And one of those tab plans every year will always be associated with strengthen student learning.
We really want to.
We really want to, how are we going to strengthen student learning here on campus?
And in our program, what are we going to do to make those students better?
And so that's why in the assessment.
You can, here's mine.
Strengthen student learning.
This is the strength and started learning.
This is our agribusiness one.
This year, we're really focusing on trends and topics.
The program outcome of trends and topics and understanding what's going on.
So you can see here all this data that we have came from the dashboard.
And focusing on what we're going to do, the action and improvement.
And they're going to have the specific what is going to be titled and how we're going to work through it.
So all this decision on how to focus on that came from the program dashboard.
Does anyone have any questions so far?
So that's program review report.
You also have to assess your courses.
So when you're in here and you're going to do your course assessments, this is what we're focusing on right now.
How do you determine in each individual course what you're going to maybe.
Does anybody have any questions on how to find their program review report and we're looking through it.
So the college effectiveness team gets that dashboard updated, gets those reports ready for us to look through.
That's what they're doing during the summer.
And then we come back and we look through it.
So where do you find data on Schoology?
I'm going to kind of show you this before I walk into Schoology and do this.
But there's a couple different ways to view the statistics.
And this is what I use when I'm putting in my course assessment.
I can look here and I can say, OK, I know what the average score was.
It calculates it right for me.
So I know that I want to work on raising that average score maybe.
Sometimes if I'm saying the students need to, a specific number of students reached toward 70 percent or better, then I have to calculate that.
So on Schoology to find that.
I'm going to go back to our course.
There's a couple different ways to do this.
So, first of all, if you go to the grade book and you have like the sample assignment here,
if I click the three dots next to that and scroll down, one of the options there is to view statistics.
That's where this box will pop up.
And that will tell you what the highest grade was, what the lowest grade was, what the average was.
So that's one way to get there.
The other way is if you have the sample assignment itself open, you will notice these icons in the upper right hand corner, there's the little graph one.
If you click on that, that view stats, that brings the same screen up.
If you are in a test, the same thing, you have stats, you can view that and it will give you the same score there.
So that's how you can easily view view stats for course assessments.
So if we go back to the hub assessment and you're doing your course assessment,
this is what, if you click to my course assessment, you're going to come to a screen that says instructor view.
Send email out earlier in the week right now, you probably aren't seeing your classes there.
You'll have to find them under all items.
But if you want to look back, specifically new instructors who are teaching a class for the first time on campus, you're like, what did a person do before?
If you're in this course assessment area and you click on all items, notice what do you see?
All kinds of things.
So you can go back to the term and you can filter by all the way back to fall 24, 25 to bring up.
So Kylie, you could filter back to last spring and see what the instructors taught the class last spring had in there regarding their course assessment.
So I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to fall 25, 26.
So here's my plant and soil science from the fall.
So once you find it and you open it, it will look like this.
And you have to click edit item to actually edit.
This page here should be filled in for you on the course information.
When you get to the assessment page, what you're going to do here is you're going to, again, when you're in the edit mode,
notice when you're in the edit mode, it says beginning of semester and end of semester.
This tab you're going to do when you create your syllabuses.
This tab you're going to do when you submit your grades.
Does that make sense?
Can you help me monitor the chat?
Just see if anybody puts anything in there because I'm like in my group here.
So the beginning semester tab, one thing to notice, and this is dealing with the whole thing, is this plain text.
So try not to, if you're copying and pasting, be careful.
Assessed by, you can put your name in there, date assessed.
This can be the actual physical date that you do the assessment.
This can be the last day of the semester.
It can go either way.
And then how are you going to assess it, which is the class.
All right.
So what was my assessment activity?
So the assessment activity was the plant structures test.
How did I determine I want to work on plant structures?
Well, when reviewing the scores on the assessment, students seem to be struggling.
Okay.
Here's the average.
Here are the average scores of the three sections I taught that class in.
Kind of a wide range.
Right.
So I want to do something to prove that.
Okay.
And that the structures are related to the course competency.
Explain nutrient and water.
You will notice here that it does give you the option to choose a core ability.
Okay.
For course assessments, do not choose a core ability.
Okay.
Choose a course competency.
You're going to pull this course competency from your syllabus, from the course outcome
summary in WIDS.
Okay.
The reason you want to assess a course competency over a core ability is the purpose of these
courses are to determine if the students are learning and mastering those course competencies.
Okay.
Are core abilities important?
Yeah.
We can assess them different ways.
Okay.
But if we're assessing a core ability in a course, is that really helping us determine
if they're meeting that course competency?
No.
Lauren's like no.
Right.
The point is we want them to meet a course competency.
You want to make sure that you're filling a course competency out.
So this one is related to explain nutrient and water movement and plans.
I'm going to, I set the score, I want them to get at least 80.
When you say the standard for student success, you want them to get, I'm saying I want my
students to score at least 80%.
The cohort quality objective is I want 85% of my students to meet that.
How am I going to do that?
I was going to have students draw and label more parts.
I was going to review and practice using the models that we have.
Okay.
Then when I go over to follow up, notice that some things transfer from the beginning of
semester tab to the end of semester tab so you don't have to go back and forth.
What was I going to do?
It's there.
I was going to use the test.
What were my scores?
Okay.
So this is what I put in here.
Okay.
I said that 10 out of 17 or 59% met the goal, 4 out of 17 students failed the test.
I did horrible.
Right.
I didn't meet my goal.
You know what?
It's okay.
This don't feel like this goal has to be met.
Okay.
Because every group of students is different.
Things might happen and sometimes it just doesn't work out and you learn from that.
You're going to continue to improve.
So it's okay to not meet the goal here.
And sometimes if you have extenuating circumstances that really cause these numbers to be low.
So let's say I heard Kylie say she had a class of six.
Right.
Okay.
So she has a class of six.
Okay.
If for some reason let's say two of them pretty much stopped coming to class and she has four
that ultimately are successful but they have you have two that end up like quote unquote
family assessment because they stopped coming to class but they didn't officially draft
the class.
Her number is going to look really bad.
Yes.
So what you could do then in that circumstance and I have done that is you could say results.
Okay.
This is the number of students in the class.
However two students stopped coming to class.
So of the four that took the assignment I had a hundred percent meet my goal.
Okay.
So it's okay to explain extenuating circumstances here because it helps understand that yeah
okay maybe the numbers look poor based on the true data set but when you actually look
at truly took the assessment you can adjust that.
Follow up.
Class structures continue to be a struggle.
I will work on this again next year.
Something different type of assessment.
So I know I have the data up here to use next year.
Something else I tend to do.
I find this help.
This really helps me out.
Okay.
So right here.
This is my meet quality class from this fall.
Okay.
To avoid having to go back and look at Schoology data in August to determine what I want to
work on for course assessment I look at it and kind of make that decision when I'm closing
out this year and I put that information down here in the follow up.
So I say here I say calculating strength was an error that students were weak on this year.
Average score on this string worksheet was eighty one point ninety four percent.
Okay.
So now come August all I'm going to do I'm not going to go back into Schoology try to
figure out my data and which what I want to work on.
I already know I want to work on a string.
I already know the data that I want to improve.
I can just pull it from this and put it in that one.
Okay.
And so that makes it very easy.
So for example clothes we go back to I go back to last spring spring of twenty four
twenty five and I look at ration balancing and recursion.
I look in the follow up.
Okay.
Right here is what I'm going to use to put in my course assessment this afternoon or
Monday morning for that class.
Okay.
I already got it figured out.
Okay.
Struggle with we continue to struggle with speed ID.
The average score was ninety.
And I want to get that up to ninety five.
So right here is my data.
I already got what I'm going to do for next year.
Okay.
So this is again this is what I do to make it easier.
You don't have to do that.
You might find your own unique way to do that.
Okay.
Questions on on that.
Okay.
Any questions from people online.
Next thing I want to talk about is technical skill attainment.
Okay.
And technical skill attainment is something is this is what the technical college system
is to determine if our students have met the skills that we need that we want them
to.
Okay.
And this is what I say when we want this to be assessed as near the end of the program
as possible.
And we do this through the mastery bridges.
You heard Lisa talk about this on Tuesday.
Some of you have been meeting with adjuncts.
The main program instructors do this but they may be working with you on this if a skill
is tied to your class.
And so so lately we do this thing as we call building bridges between schoology to help
us track.
So I was telling you we had those capstone classes.
So here's the capstone project for animal science.
And this is the mastery bridge kind of rubric what it ultimately looks like in schoology
for animal science.
And you can see all the all the program outcomes are up there.
Okay.
Um are tied up here.
We've got a tie to the to the rubric and the capstone to our right into the right into
the schoology assignment.
And then ultimately when you put it in there this is what you see in schoology.
When you see the results.
But you can see we have the course competencies course objectives across the top.
And then you can see how the students did in each one of those those areas.
One thing we have I have noticed I mean you can see we got a couple of couple of these.
One thing I have noticed is that if for some reason a student and their capstone project
tends to leaves out a section in the they just decide they're not going to do for us
we have a section that's tied to some of our outcomes related to like professional development
and they have to like write their like career like their next five year goals like choose
a or an agricultural organization like Farm Bureau o'cadamons that they're going to get
involved in.
But for some reason they tend to blow that off.
Okay.
And they get they get a poor score on that.
It's going to show that they didn't beat that that that TSA.
But you know that's just how how it works.
We kind of know in our head maybe the student did in some of those areas depending on how
they did that.
But you can see there kind of how the performance was.
And so again this is all what is reported then to the state.
And there's another question.
So so that's kind of what it looks like.
So ultimately let me see.
So here's that capstone project.
So when I look it up here's here's the rubric that we've worked with.
Lisa and Tyler's the gentleman that was here before Tyler to put this rubric together.
And it's a three to one just the TSA score.
And here we can see all our program outcomes and objectives and how and then we tie them
to our to our capstone project.
And then that puts together I'm not going to click on this because I don't want to things
to potentially pop up.
But then that will give us from that completing that you eventually will get something that
works looks like this down here to show that.
Right.
Any questions on TSA.
This is usually done in May at the end of the academic year.
And Lisa Riley in the same way as person she's the one that handles that.
So direct anything related to TSA to questions on any of that stuff.
As you are working through course assessments for the first time or even not the first time.
And if you're struggling with them if you're lost please reach out to your mentor please
reach out to other people in your department to see if they can help you or reach out to me.
OK.
I'm willing to sit down with you one on one and walk you through and help you get comfortable
and filling out those course assessments.
OK.
So if you want help with them and you're not going to have them done by Monday you know
what.
OK.
Say Christina I need help.
I want to make sure that these are done right.
We'll schedule some time in the next couple of weeks and we'll get it done.
OK.
And if you're on the naughty list it'll be fine.
OK.
Because you can say hey I definitely was proceeding a little work.
I'm probably going to be the one that pulls the list anyway.
OK.
So so know that that is is an option.
All right.
Any questions on anything.
We went through a lot.
Quite a lot.
So we're going to work on wrapping up here.
OK.
So what I want you to do is so we really focus on performance based curriculum to guide learning
formative and summative assessments decision making using data and communicating.
OK.
We could easily go more in depth on any of those.
Again these are all great ideas to work on forming or finding information and doing
professional development.
So what I want you to do now as we get ready to as we wrap up here is in that in strategy
and everyone should have access to it.
This course survey here you need to take that that's for HR purposes.
But in the coursework section at the very end there's something that says end of course
take away.
So what I want you to do some people put comments in.
So you can do you can don't try not to use the comments part.
You should be going to have submissions.
Right.
You should be able to submit just type in the submission section like you were like you
were our student and just put in there the what's what's one take away from today.
What is something that you learn today.
This is how I'm assessing your learning day making it a very simple assessment.
What is one thing you learn today that you're going to implement or that you want to learn
more about or that's going to that you're going to you're going to put to work.
OK.
And so with that I'm doing good.
I said I said mental gold noon.
I got everybody out here.
I need to get you throw something in your stomach and you'll meet people at 1230.
Right.
So stop sharing.
Those of you online any questions as to what you're doing.
So once you if you have any questions online just feel free to ask otherwise go into Schoology
submit your tell me what you're going to what you learn what you're going to work on.
And thank you all for listening joining us online today.
And as you finish up submission you can you can log off.
Reach out to me at any time if you have questions.
Same.
Of course that assessment.
Did you say you wanted us to add it as a comment or not.
I'm sorry.
On the coursework.
Don't use don't use the comment section you just use it a submission like you would an assignment like you were a student.
OK.
All right.
Thank you.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I don't know how to do that.
I don't know how to do that.
How do I submit us assignment on Schoology.
One second Jennifer.
OK.
Thank you.
It's making me I want to just submit an assignment you just have to put it into a word deck or something.
OK.
So in Schoology and and this is you know those ones that are looking for new are looking at new somewhere over here.
You should say it should be like create submission or whatever.
Submit assignment.
It says if you click on that.
You will have the option to you can either upload a Word document or there should be like an area in there that you can just type.
This is what some as I've been watching some of the new LMS is on campus this week.
We have the option to you can make it a U.S. student so that I can show you specifically what it looks like.
Does that help you.
I think so.
I'm looking now.
If you click the middle box you can type in your response and then submit it.
If you try and do it the first box it doesn't work so well.
All right.
Going to create instead of upload.
Yeah.
Go to create.
OK.
That's what it's called.
I could show you the student view.
And those of you online once you've submitted something you can't hear more than welcome to log off.
So I want to make sure all your work.
Well I hope you guys enjoy training.
Bye.
Christina.
Yes Stacey.
It does say our assignments are late because it had a due date of twenty twenty five.
Just to let you know.
Yeah I don't care.
I know when I thought I know when I did it.
OK.
Thanks for letting me know.
You see I'm not perfect.
Actually I didn't even realize.
So do we need to resubmit where it says resubmit assignment because assignments late.
No.
OK.
So how do we know that it went through.
I know I can see it on my end.
All is good on my end.
OK.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Nine nine nine nine.
And I change.
I change the due date.
So now it says all on.
Alright.
Thank you.
OK.
We're closed.
No other questions.
Thanks for taking the time to join us today.
We're closed.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
